.TH "FENDEB" "1" "2015\-04\-30" "fendeb User Manual" ""
.SH NAME
.PP
fendeb \- Conveniance scripts for using pbuilder
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
fendeb [actions] [options]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
This manual page documents briefly the fendeb scripts suite.
.PP
Fendeb is a collection of helper scripts designed to allow you to
quickly and easily prompt you through the management of multiple
pbuilder environments that you can use to build debian files.
.PP
It abstracts away gathering details required to configure an environment
by giving you easy on screen prompts to selecting which distribution,
release and architecture you wish to use for building.
.PP
Finally it also tracks state such as what was the last environment you
were using for building so that you don\[aq]t have to continuously
specify which environment you want to use when building debian files.
.SH ACTIONS
.TP
.B \f[C]create\f[]
Creates a new pbuilder environment
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[C]update\f[]
Updates and upgrades an environment to include the latest packages from
a release
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[C]build\f[]
Switches build environments so that you can use a different pbuilder
environment on your system
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[C]make\f[]
Builds a new debian file using a .dsc file
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[C]help\f[]
Prints a usage help.
.RS
.RE
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \f[C]\-m\ [mirror\ url]\f[], \f[C]\-\-user\ [mirror\ url]\f[]
Which mirror you wish to use.
If no argument is given, you will be prompted for a release to choose.
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[C]\-d\ [distribution]\f[], \f[C]\-\-dist\ [distribution]\f[]
Which distribution you wish to use.
i.e.
debian, ubuntu.
If no argument is given, you will be prompted to choose.
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[C]\-r\ [release]\f[], \f[C]\-\-release\ [release]\f[]
Which release of a distribution you wish to use.
e.g.
stable in debian.
vivid in Ubuntu.
If no argument is given, you will be prompted to choose.
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[C]\-a\f[], \f[C]\-\-arch\ [architecture]\f[]
Which arch you wish to use.
e.g.
i386, amd64
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[C]\-p\f[], \f[C]\-\-automated\f[]
For script use.
Will not display interactive screens, however may error if required
information above not supplied.
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[C]\-s\ [directory]\f[], \f[C]\-\-storage\ [directory]\f[]
Sets the storage path where pbuilder files will be saved to.
This setting will be saved in \[aq]~/.fendeb/storage\-path\[aq] when
first prompted unless overrided with this option in which case that
option will be saved overwriting the previously set option.
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[C]\-v\f[], \f[C]\-\-verbose\f[]
Be verbose.
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[C]\-h\f[], \f[C]\-\-help\f[]
Prints some usage information.
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[C]\-V\f[], \f[C]\-\-version\f[]
Prints version.
.RS
.RE
.SH CONFIGURATION
.PP
To begin using fendeb first you must configure your debian settings.
Please make sure the following settings are set before beginning in your
\[aq]~/.bashrc\[aq] or related file.
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
export\ DEBFULLNAME="Your\ name"
export\ DEBEMAIL="your\@email.com"
\f[]
.fi
.PP
These variables are used by pbuilder when building your debian files and
need to be set.
If you don\[aq]t set them then fendeb will error out and ask you to set
them until you do.
.SH CREATING AN ENVIRONMENT
.PP
You can create a new build environment like so
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
$\ fendeb\ create
\f[]
.fi
.PP
or for scripts
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
$\ fendeb\ create\ \-a\ \-m\ http://ftp.us.debian.org/debian\ \-d\ debian\ \-r\ stable\ \-a\ amd64\ \-s\ ~/fendeb
\f[]
.fi
.PP
When you create a new environment it automatically becomes your current
working environment.
This means when you use other commands such as update or make you
don\[aq]t need to specify which environment.
.SH SWITCHING ENVIRONMENTS
.PP
If you have more than one build environment you can switch which one is
set to the current working environment like so
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
$\ fendeb\ build
\f[]
.fi
.PP
or
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
$\ fendeb\ build\ debian/stable/amd64
\f[]
.fi
.SH UPDATING AN ENVIRONMENT
.PP
Sometimes you might want to upgrade your environment with the latest
packages.
You can do this like so
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
$\ fendeb\ update
\f[]
.fi
.SH BUILDING A DEB FILE WITH THE ENVIRONMENT
.PP
To build an environment you must first go into the project and run
debuild.
This will generate a .dsc file which you then feed through to fenbuild.
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
$\ fendeb\ make\ [target\ debian\ dsc\ file]
\f[]
.fi
.PP
This will start pbuilder and generate a log file for you into your
environment folder for reference.
.SH EXIT CODES
.PP
There are a bunch of different error codes and their corresponding error
messages that may appear during bad conditions.
At the time of this writing, the exit codes are:
.TP
.B \f[C]1\f[]
Unknown error
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[C]2\f[]
Configuration error or pbuilder missing
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[C]3\f[]
Missing arguments
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[C]4\f[]
Build environment missing or no environment(s) found
.RS
.RE
.SH KNOWN ISSUES & BUGS
.PP
The upstream BTS can be found at
<https://github.com/andrewfenn/fendeb/issues>.
.SH AUTHORS
Andrew Fenn <andrewfenn@gmail.com>.
